a Seth Godin says instead of wondering
when your next vacation is maybe you
should set up a life you don't need an
escape from I don't think people really
realize we construct our lives we build
them from nothing we decide what our
goals are we decide in what way to move
we decide who we're going to become and
what we're going to get but it's a
decision it's a process it isn't
something that somebody hands to you and
so if you find that your life is a
misery understand that your life is an
exact reflection of your choices and if
you want a different life you need to
only make a different choice but I know
right now many of you are thinking but I
don't know what way to go I don't know
what choice to make I don't know what it
is that I want to do and as Roy Maurice
Keene said I don't believe skill was or
ever will be the result of coaches it is
a result of a love affair between the
child and the ball so ask yourself
what's that thing that you love and
don't judge yourself if it was something
that you loved as a child that people
are telling you you couldn't possibly
make money and it's that part of the
equation that I want to break for people
I want you to understand
stop asking yourself what you can make a
lot of money yet and start asking
yourself what would you enjoy what is
that life that you don't need to escape
from what is the life that is your love
what is the thing that as a kid you did
whether people wanted you to or not what
is the thing you would sneak out that
night to do because you weren't gonna be
stopped from doing it everybody has
something like that in their life some
spark of interest maybe long-dormant
maybe that they've pushed aside because
they think it's stupid well maybe they
failed once and they think they're bad
at it
even though they love it that sting of
the failure has convinced them to stop
pursuing it but at the end of the day
the only thing that matters is what
gives you that energy at the end of the
day the thing that matters is what fills
you with joy at the end of the day the
only thing that matters it's not success
in sure as hell isn't any money the time
you filled about yourself when you're by
yourself it's the things that give you
energy it's what you think about
yourself it's how you react to the hard
thing is whether or not you push through
and when you push through when you
persevere when you go down the process
of taking the time to structure your
life to build it into something that you
want it to be to build it into something
that you're proud of to become the
person that's capable of the things you
want to do that can first fall in love
with something and do it for the love of
it not worry about what other people
think if you hate your life I guarantee
you the thing is that you were trapped
by what other people think you don't
want to give it up because somebody will
think you're a failure you don't want to
give it up because it's a paycheck you
don't want to give it up because you're
scared you're scared you don't know what
you'll do next
but imagine a world for a second what
all you thought about was what do you
love what do you enjoy in that moment it
doesn't matter if it changes from day to
day just what do you love what fills you
with joy what gives you that energy at
the end of the day the only thing that
we all have is right now this moment
it's what you're experiencing loving
what you do how you spend your time
that's the point of all of it the point
of life is that in each transient moment
that passes by doing something that
fills you with joy
nobody can give you that we've got to
build that life so go out figure out
what it is that you want to do and brick
by brick have the courage to build that
life
as Henry David Thoreau said never look
back unless you're planning to go that
way
and that's how people get trapped
there's something inevitable about the
way that the human mind works it's going
to try to draw you backwards it's going
to try to get you to focus on the bad
things that have happened it wants you
to see your mistakes it wants you to
wallow in your mistakes and I'll give it
that maybe it has the best of intentions
maybe it's hope is that I don't repeat
those mistakes maybe what it wants to
ensure is that I do better in the future
but the problem is your energy goes
where your attention is and if your
attention is the past that's where
you're going to live that's where you're
going to spend your time and you're
never going to be able to plan for the
future the future doesn't happen the
future has to be built it has to be
created and if you're not taking the
time to map out that creation then it's
gonna happen by accident and you're
never going to get the things that you
want you're never going to become the
person that you're capable of becoming
but to become that pushed and you have
to push yourself you've got to make huge
demands of yourself and to do that to
have the energy to see that through
you've got to know what it is that
you're trying to accomplish and as
William Faulkner said don't bother just
to be better than your contemporaries or
your predecessors try to be better than
yourself but how can you do that if all
you're doing is looking in the past you
can get a have an eye to the future
you've got to know who you are today
you've got to have the self-awareness
the presence to look at yourself
honestly to accept what it is about
yourself that is weak that is inadequate
but without punishing yourself without
spending that time beating yourself up
in the past living there in the pain of
what you got wrong living there in the
pain of all the things that have
happened to you that we're outside of
your control that you didn't want if you
want to build something new don't spend
any of your energy trying to tear down
the old instead spend all of your time
trying to build the new and that becomes
the thing it becomes the race against
yourself it becomes the race to see if
you can make yourself better you have a
vision of who you can become and you're
constantly racing against that person
you're trying to become better than that
person you're trying to outperform your
own expectations and when you can do
that when you can set a bar that is
ridiculously high and then becomes
somebody capable of surpassing that then
and only then will you become the person
you were meant to be so put all of your
time and energy into the building
you